add more info about RichText field and the usage of transforms and RichTextValue (#1648)
plone/documentation: docs/backend/fields.md

| `NamedBlobFile` | `NamedBlobFile` | A binary uploaded file stored as a ZODB blob. Requires the `blobs` extra to `plone.namedfile`. Otherwise identical to `NamedFile`. | `IField` |
| `NamedBlobImage` | `NamedBlobImage` | A binary uploaded image stored as a ZODB blob. Requires the `blobs` extra to `plone.namedfile`. Otherwise identical to `NamedImage`. | `IField` |

> #### NamedBlobImage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `NamedBlobImage`
```

> The following example shows, how to create an Image object and attach the image file to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to create an `Image` object, and attach the image file to it.
```

```python
img_obj = api.content.create(
    container=ww_article,
    type="Image",
    id="test.jpg",
)
img_obj.image = NamedBlobImage(
    data=img_file,
    filename="test.jpg",

> )

Reviewer 2: It's probably better to pass the image in the call to create(), so that the image_scales get indexed during the object creation. (Otherwise you would need a separate reindex after this)

Reviewer: @MrTango would you please respond to @davisagli's suggestion?

Author: @davisagli thx for the hint, better now?

| `RichText` | `RichTextValue` | Stores a `RichTextValue`, which encapsulates a raw text value, the source MIME type, and a cached copy of the raw text transformed to the default output MIME type. | `IField`, `IRichText` |

> The RichText field allows for alternative markups and content filtering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `RichText` field allows for alternative markups and content filtering.
The following code sample shows how to create a schema with a `RichText` field.
```

`output_mime_type`
:   A string representing the default output MIME type.
    This defaults to `text/x-html-safe`, which is a Plone-specific MIME type that disallows certain tags.
    Use the {guilabel}`HTML Filtering` control panel in Plone to control the tags.

`allowed_mime_types`
:   A tuple of strings giving a vocabulary of allowed input MIME types.
    If this is `None` (the default), the allowable types will be restricted to those set in Plone's {guilabel}`Markup` control panel.

The *default* field can be set to either a Unicode object (in which case it will be assumed to be a string of the default MIME type) or a {ref}`backend-fields-richtextvalue-label`.

#### reStructuredText transformation

Below is an example of a field that allows StructuredText and reStructuredText, transformed to HTML by default.

```python
from plone.app.textfield import RichText
from plone.supermodel import model

defaultBody = """\
Background
==========

Please fill this in

Details
-------

And this
"""

class ITestSchema(model.Schema):

    body = RichText(
        title="Body text",
        default_mime_type='text/x-rst',
        output_mime_type='text/x-html',

>         allowed_mime_types=('text/x-rst', 'text/structured',),

Reviewer: Minor nit-pick, but if we Black-ify code, then `"` is preferred over `'`.

        default=defaultBody,
    )
```

(backend-fields-richtextvalue-label)=

> #### RichTextValue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `RichTextValue`
```

> The `RichText` field, most of the time does not store a string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `RichText` field usually does not store a string.
```

Instead, it stores a `RichTextValue` object.
This is an immutable object that has the following properties.

`raw`
:   A Unicode string with the original input markup.

`mimeType`

> :   The MIME type of the original markup, for example `text/html` or `text/structured`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   The MIME type of the original markup, for example, `text/html` or `text/structured`.
```

`output`
:   A Unicode object representing the transformed output.
    If possible, this is cached persistently, until the `RichTextValue` is replaced with a new one (as happens when an edit form is saved, for example).

The storage of the `RichTextValue` object is optimized for the case where the transformed output will be read frequently (for example, on the view screen of the content object) and the raw value will be read infrequently (for example, on the edit screen).
Because the output value is cached indefinitely, you will need to replace the `RichTextValue` object with a new one if any of the transformation parameters change.
However, as we will see below, it is possible to apply a different transformation on demand, if you need to.

The code snippet below shows how a `RichTextValue` object can be constructed in code.
In this case, we have a raw input string of type `text/plain` that will be transformed to a default output of `text/html`.
Note that we would normally look up the default output type from the field instance.

```python
from plone.app.textfield.value import RichTextValue

> context.body = RichTextValue("Some input text", 'text/plain', 'text/html')

Reviewer: More nitpicks s/'/".

```

The standard widget used for a `RichText` field will correctly store this type of object for you, so it is rarely necessary to create one yourself.

> ##### Using RichText fields in templates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### `RichText` fields in templates
```

If you use a `DisplayForm`, the display widget for the `RichText` field will render the transformed output markup automatically.
If you write TAL manually, you may try something like the following.

```xml
<div tal:content="structure context/body" />
```

This, however, will render a string as follows.

```html
RichTextValue object. (Did you mean <attribute>.raw or <attribute>.output?)
```

The correct syntax is:

```xml
<div tal:content="structure context/body/output" />
```

This will render the cached, transformed output.
This operation is approximately as efficient as rendering a simple `Text` field, since the transformation is only applied once, when the value is first saved.

##### Alternative transformations

Sometimes, you may want to invoke alternative transformations.
Under the hood, the default implementation uses the `portal_transforms` tool to calculate a transform chain from the raw value's input MIME type to the desired output MIME type.

> If you need to write your own transforms, take a look at [this tutorial](https://5.docs.plone.org/develop/plone/misc/portal_transforms.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to write your own transforms, take a look at [Changing Portal Transforms Settings via Python](https://5.docs.plone.org/develop/plone/misc/portal_transforms.html).
```

This is abstracted behind an `ITransformer` adapter to allow alternative implementations.

To invoke a transformation in code, you can use the following syntax.

```python
from plone.app.textfield.interfaces import ITransformer

transformer = ITransformer(context)

> transformedValue = transformer(context.body, 'text/plain')

Reviewer: More nitpick.

```

The `__call__()` method of the `ITransformer` adapter takes a `RichTextValue` object and an output MIME type as parameters.

If you write a page template, there is an even more convenient syntax.

```xml
<div tal:content="structure context/@@text-transform/body/text/plain" />
```

> The first traversal name gives the name of the field on the context (`body` in this case).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first traversal name segment gives the name of the field on the context (`body` in this case).
```

> The second and third give the output MIME type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second and third segments give the output MIME type.
```
